>> Evgenii Ray: Also, the HTTP/2+
provides better header compression.
If we take the average header size
on HTTP/1, which is the 5 kilobytes,
on HTTP/2, it's just the 12 bytes,
which is 98% more efficient.
So look at this line of code.
Guess the bundle size for
this line of code.
And if we try to think how much code will
be generated after we compile this code,
so for ES5 environment,
it's 16.9 kilobyte of
JavaScript code because we'll
use the polyfills for that.
For ES20 bundle, it's just 69 bytes.
So you need to be aware of the environment
you are trying to compile
your application.
And if we look at the Core JS size, so
it's a 74 kilobytes of
minified compressed code.
But when it's uncompressed, the JavaScript
parser will have to parse the whole
243 kilobytes of the code before
you can actually execute your app.
So the thing is, there are a few
interesting facts about the modern JS.
So ES6 already is supported by
98% of the client, while ES7 and
10 has the support of 96%, and ES12, 89%.
So basically we are providing
the polyfills for
a very minority of the clients.
And the way how can we try
to optimize that is to
instruct our JS Compiler to
prepare multiple bundles.
So it can be ES5 bundle,
it can be ES10 bundle, and ES2024,
which is the most modern one.
So then we can instruct the server,
based on the user agent,
we can detect what's
the browser engine we have.
And we can return optimized HTML
with the JavaScript assets for
this client, so we'll reduce the payload
size that the client receives.
The next performance optimization
technique is the code split.
So essentially, we can have our bundle,
which is 600 kilobytes, and
in HTTP/1 world, this would be the best
practice, but now it's anti-pattern.
We actually encourage to split the code
because it will load faster now.
So we can split our code in
the separate modules, and
we can load the module dynamically and
reduce the initial bundle load.
We can go even farther and instruct
the modules to load in In the background.
So, for instance, we know that our
application starts with model 1.
But in some foreseeable future,
we actually know that the model 2 and
module 3 will be loaded.
So we can instruct the browser
using the link element
with the rel = "prefetch"
value to fetch this asset and
cache in the browser cache.
So when we access it,
we already have this resource.
So there are two values that they can use.
One is preload, so
it's instruct the browser to load
such asset under the high priority.
And also there is a prefetch which
basically loads in the background under
the lower priority.
And you can play around with that and
you can basically prefetch all your
JavaScript assets on the background, and
when you access the specific module,
it will be there and
you will not see any loading.
The next thing is the code
minification and compression,
which probably you all use that already.
So the minification is
just refactoring our code.
So this process included
in every bundle now.
So we're basically removing
the longVariableName.
We're also refactoring
the function names and
making the code more compact, so
we can reduce on average the size by 20%.
So from 1 megabyte,
we went to 800 kilobyte.
So next is the compression.
So the compression, there are two main
algorithm that we can use for compression.
One is gzip, so
it's supported by most of the clients and
the browsers and the servers,
and also CDNs, and
it provides a very good compression rate,
around 80%.
So also there is a Brotli,
which is slightly newer format,
and it's 20,
30% more efficient on average.
And right now, it's supported
by most of the browsers now,
and you can also use that on your CDNs.
And if we take an example, Lodash library,
we'll see that from 530 kilobytes,
with Brotli,
we went to 73 kilobytes, while with
the gzip, we went to 94 kilobytes.
So the difference is 4%.
But anyway, if we can compress more,
why don't we do that?
>> Evgenii Ray: So
we applied the compression now, and
we went from our 600 kilobyte
package to slightly reduced one.
And the next thing is to change
the order of the script loading.
So we can instruct the script
to be loaded later.
So, for instance, you have some analytics
or telemetry scripts that don't
really impact the user experience because
you load them on the background and
you don't, they work, so they don't
interact with your runtime code.
So you can tell the browser that you
need the scripts only once your page
is loaded and everything is rendered.
So you can use the defer flag.
So you will improve your first screen
loading, because if you use the normal
synchronous loading, then the browser
will load the first asset,
then the second, then the third,
and then the fourth.
But since these scripts are kind of
optional and our app can function without
that, so we can tell the browser that,
okay, I don't need the scripts for
the first load, defer them, and
let's optimize our first screen rendering.
>> Evgenii Ray: And here we applied
the deferred load to the scripts.
And that's it for
the JavaScript optimization section.